All right so let's get rid of our lovely table code there and see how we can link from one page to another.
We've all spent plenty of time clicking on links I'm sure.
And they're actually really easy to introduce into your pages.
So let's put our link inside a paragraph tag and the tag that we use for links is the tag.
I believe that stands for anchor.
We'll see specifically what an anchor link is in a few minutes time.
But first I want to show you how we can link to for example the Google home page.
So the a gem really just has the one attribute and that's a ref.
So that should for hyperlink reference.
And that is the you are l that we want to link to.
So before you Arel of Google is HTP colon slash slash WWE.
Google dot com.
There we go.
And then inside the e-TAG you put whatever text you want to use for the link.
So click here to go to Google dot com or something like that.
So we click there to go to Google and then we click there.
That takes us to the Google home page simple.
Now you can actually put anything you like in this tag here.
So here's a quick challenge for you.
Can you put an image inside a link and then pick it so that when you click on the image it goes to a
Web site of your choice say Wikipedia and you can use the same image that we used a couple of years
ago.
If you like.
Go for it.
All right.
I manage that
the way we do it is we set up the link and exactly the same way.
So we're going into Wikipedia this time.
So it's at Wikipedia dot com.
And then inside the tag for link we put out image tag.
So if you remember that I am g and then source C equals and then my one was homotopic N-G.
There we go.
Simple as that.
So let's have a look.
So we've now got our first link is still there and there's a lovely home image.
Then click on that takes us to Wikipedia order.
Let's just update that.
You can say directed nicely but always good to get the link right in the first place.
All right so that's how we do links to pages on other Web sites.
We can also do links within our Web site and they work slightly differently.
These are known as absolute links because no matter where you are on the web any link that goes to HTP
Kelen Slash has to be read every day.
Google dot com will go to the same place but there are things called relative links which we'll see
now and they can be a little bit easier if you're linking within your website.
So they work in exactly the same way.
But this time I'm going to link to Hello World.
I actually L which was our first page that we came up with.
And you can see this time.
I don't need to put HTP at that.
I just put hello world or h t m l because hello world is in the same folder and location as the page
that we were in at the moment.
So if we have a quick look in the Finder you can see Hello world is there and my web page is there.
So if they're in the same place you can just put a link to them.
Without having to put all the other stuff.
Right.
And that's really useful because you might move your site to a different domain name some reason or
you might restructure your site.
Things are in a slightly different place to where they were before.
And if you do that using relative links it should not break anything.
So I'd recommend using relative links on your own site and then absolute links if you're linking to
someone else's site.
So let's just check this one out.
There we go.
Well I.
And then you can see it links nicely to what I changed to Halo Rob earlier.
All right.
The last thing I want to show you about links what I mentioned at the beginning.
The uncle links linking within a page.
Now to make that clear I'm going to bring in several.
To get my page.
A lot of content.
So let's just have a look.
Eric so we can scroll up and down all those homers now.
And one thing that's very useful when you've got a nice long page like this is a link at the bottom
that says Back to Top you've probably seen those on a few sites and they're really easy to create with
HTL.
And we do this using what's known as an I.D. So I'm going to take my paragraph tag which begins the
page and I'm going to give it an ID.
And for now I would just give it an ID of top like that.
The idea is we're actually going to be using a lot first in CSSA for styling.
And then in javascript to start getting bits of your web page interacting with each other.
But for now we'll just use them for this anchoring effect.
So now that we've got a paragraph tag with an ID we can add a link at the end of our page and we use
the hash symbol which on a Mac is all three.
It'll be somewhere else on a PC keyboard probably depending where you are in the world.
And then after the hash symbol we just use whatever word we use to describe our I.D. in this case top.
There we go.
And then we just put in the text that we want to use for that link.
And let's take a look.
So now we scroll down and back it up.
And that takes us right to the top of the page.
Let's say for example that we wanted to jump to the third Homer.
So one two three.
Can you add in a link just underneath back to top to jump to the third Hona on the page.
Go for it.
All right.
Have you managed that.
It's obviously pretty similar to our back to top.
Would just add in and I stress again with a hash symbol.
And then I'll call it third Homa like that and then
whatever text you want to go to the third Homer and then one two three.
The third homers here.
So let's give that paragraph tag an ID of that Homer and we go let's have a look.
So go to Homer then jumped not to the top but to our third Homer.
Fantastic.
So we got three types of links there.
We've got the absolute links which take you to a specific page on the web.
We've got the relative links which take you to a page on your website and then we've got these anchor
links which take you to a different portion of the page that you're currently on.
Brilliant.
So we're almost at the end of this first HVM L section.
Got a big challenge coming up for you.
Now there's one more thing I want to show you and that is TNL entities and we'll look at that in the
next video.